Good afternoon.
I'm Tim Hatcher, and welcome to
Advanced Web Kit Integration.
Today we're going to talk about
some novel uses of WebKit,
some key APIs that you
need to know about,
what's new in Leopard, and Tim Omernick,
my colleague, is going to talk to you
about plug-ins later on.
So let's talk about some
novel uses of Web Kit.
First, there's Safari.
Probably the most un-novel
use of Web Kit there could be.
It's just a browser.
Out of the box, Web Kit behaves just
like it would in Safari.
Two years ago,
we released Web Kit as an API that
you guys can use in your application.
And there's been many uses
of Web Kit since then.
And here's just a few of them.
Out of this, you'll see some trends,
such as chat applications.
Pretty near and dear to my heart,
as some of you might know.
But chat applications really
can take advantage of what
Web Kit as an API has to offer.
You can do advanced styling,
you can append and modify content live.
It's really what a chat
application needs to do,
and that's what Web Kit lets
you do right out of the box.
Another great category of
these applications that are the
family of Web Kit applications
are web development tools.
This makes a lot of sense because
you're using the same technology
that Safari uses to display
the content to the end user.
And some examples:
SandVox from Corellia and Xile Scope.
One other key application that you
want to do a live preview of that's
kind of picked up on Web Kit in
recent years is blog editors.
There's a lot of blog editors that
use Web Kit to style and display
a live preview of exactly what
you're going to post on your blog.
So you can see it,
and you can exactly see how it's going
to look when the user goes to your site.
So out of these applications,
who all of you are using
Web Kit in your application?
Let's see some hands.
That's great.
So hopefully today you can take the
knowledge you've learned and go back and
start using Web Kit in unique ways such
as these applications and find new ways
to use Web Kit and integrate it more
with your application to show content,
to show styles,
to show previews of things that
you want your users to know about.
It doesn't have to be web-related.
Your application can be
just a regular application,
a Cocoa application,
and you use Web Kit in one little
piece for a registration pane.
You can use Web Kit in a lot of places,
and hopefully with what
I'm going to talk about,
I'll help you start using
Web Kit in those ways.
So some key Web Kit APIs that
you want to know about.
These are fundamental pieces that you'll
want to know if you're going to start
using Web Kit in a normal application.
Most of you probably aren't going to
go out and make a new web browser.
Safari's the best one, of course.
I want to know about the
Document Object Model.
Not a whole lot of you probably
have used the Document Object Model,
unless you have a lot of
history with web development.
So I'm going to go over the
Document Object Model a little bit.
So what is the Document Object Model?
Every web page has a
structure of HTML and content.
When that gets parsed by Web Kit,
it turns it into what's called the DOM.
And this is a standard set up by the W3C.
And it allows you to interact and
programmatically change or access
anything that's in that HTML file.
So it's a tree-based structure.
And you can access it from
JavaScript or Objective-C.
So I mentioned it was
a tree-based structure.
Here are some of the key properties
and methods that you're going
to be using when you're using
the DOM to access this structure,
such as parent node, next sibling,
child nodes.
So you can traverse and modify
the tree with these other methods,
insert, append, remove.
Very common names,
and these are all standard
names set up by the W3C.
And the names are used in
JavaScript in Objective-C,
so if you're used to it in JavaScript,
you can just use it in Objective-C.
So those were the node properties.
You can also access a
special type of node,
which is the document.
It's the main node of the tree.
It's what you use to get access to
everything else that's in that tree.
So you can get access
to the document element,
which is going to be your HTML element.
You can get access to the title,
the body.
You can also get access to style
sheets and use the style sheet DOM.
Some other methods that you'll be
using all the time from the document
are getElementById and createElement
if you're modifying the DOM.
So let's talk about some of those.
Here's an example in JavaScript using
createElement and createTextNode,
and I just append it simply to the body.
And you ask a document to
create a new element for you,
and you pass in a tag name,
and create a text node based on a string,
and then you can append it.
So here's the same
example in Objective-C,
no JavaScript included.
So you can do the exact
same thing in Objective-C.
And this has been available since Tiger,
and it's also available in
the 10.3.9 update in Panther.
So you can really use
Objective-C DOM access in
your Web Kit applications now.
And it's really great
for optimized code paths.
And as you can see,
we're using the same naming
schemes as the JavaScript access.
So it's all the standard
names from the W3C.
And you can see the JavaScript and
Objective-C are very similar,
just syntactical
differences in the language.
So I talked a little bit
about adding content,
making new DOM nodes,
doing things like that.
What if you have some HTML that
comes in over the wire,
like in a chat application,
or some other text that
you read from the disk,
but you can't point
Web Kit directly at it?
Here's some ways to inject and
read in HTML directly from the DOM.
It's an extension set up by
Microsoft in their Internet Explorer,
but all browsers have
added inner HTML support.
You can get access to the HTML text,
and you can also set
it using this property.
So here's an example that
gets an element by ID,
like I said, the preferred way of getting
access to an element very quickly.
Tim Hortons, and I'm changing the inner
HTML to say hello WWDC in bold.
And that'll be parsed,
and here's an example of
what it would look like if
I re-serialized the DOM back out.
It would have the new HTML injected
inside and replacing everything
that's inside that div.
So that's how you use the DOM to
modify what's in a web view.
So let's give a demo on that.
I have an Xcode project.
Like I said,
chat applications have started using this
almost exclusively in their web view.
So I'm going to give you a little
demo of a simple chat application.
It's written in a few hundred lines.
It doesn't do any network or anything.
It just locally echoes
everything to the web view.
So I have an HTML file.
: I'm Tim Omernick, and it's part of my
application resources.
I also have some supporting
CSS and JavaScript.
And in my nib,
I just have my web view wired up,
and I also have a text input field.
All very simple and common
for a chat application.
So let's look at the code.
In my Nib,
I have this class set up as an instance,
and in the Awake from Nib,
I just tell the WebView to
load a document.
And there's many ways to tell
WebKit to load an HTML file.
This is the preferred way.
You're using a request.
There's other ways to load a string,
but if you can really load from a disk,
that's the best approach.
So I have send chat message hooked
up to the action of my text field.
And what I want to do in this is
make a new DOM element that then gets
appended at the bottom of the HTML file.
So here's the structure that I'm going
to be creating in code using DOM calls.
So I put this little comment here
to give me a guide on what the
HTML is actually going to look like,
what my goal is.
So whenever you're accessing the DOM,
you're probably going
to use the document.
You always need the document,
so you might as well just
assign it to a local variable
or a class instance variable.
So, like I showed in the earlier example,
I can create an element,
and in this case, I'm creating a div.
A div in HTML is
basically a simple block.
So if you need to do any blocks,
you want to use a div,
and I'll show that in my demo.
message element.
One thing I'll talk about a little later,
but this is using a style class.
I have this style message
set up in my CSS file.
Div will now use this style that
I have loaded in my HTML file.
One other thing that's common in a
chat application is to have a username.
So I'm going to create a
new element that's a span.
And a span is an inline element,
so text will flow next to it.
I'm also going to set
a class name for user,
and that's defined in my CSS file.
I'm also going to set the text content.
This can be whatever the
username of the local user is.
In this case, it's Xenon,
which is my nickname.
I'm also going to create a DOM text node,
and you do that just like an element,
talking to the document
to get a text node.
You might be familiar
with core foundation.
Every time you ask for create,
you have to then release an element.
Not so in the DOM.
The DOM has some conflicting naming
schemes compared to core foundation,
which most of you are familiar with.
When you ask a document
to create a text node,
we return you an auto-released version.
The document is really
holding onto that for you,
too.
You don't need to release it.
It's part of the document.
So I have the text of my message.
I just pulled that out of the text field.
Now I'm going to combine those
two and append that in order,
the username and then the text message,
to the message element,
which wraps everything based on the
little template that I was using.
So I have my message element,
my username element, my cool message,
and those are all our children
of the message element.
So that's where this happens.
We also now have the capability
in Leopard to add event
listeners through Objective-C.
I'll talk about this a little bit later.
Now we have our message element
that contains the username and text.
So now I want to append that
to the body of the document.
And in most chat applications,
you want to scroll down,
so you would do this code.
I'm not going to talk
a whole lot about that.
and then reset the input field.
So let's see how this works.
Bring up.
I have a simple chat application here
with the focus on the text field.
And my background of
the document is blue,
and there's nothing
loaded in the document.
So I can type in a couple messages,
and you'll see it gets
appended as you would expect.
And Web Kit handles all the resizing,
just like an HTML file.
You don't have to worry about
doing all the drawing code.
Notice in my DOM,
I'm not telling it how to draw.
That's part of the CSS.
Which you should go out and learn
if you're going to be using Web Kit.
I'm not going to go over
how the CSS syntax defines
how the look and feel is.
But CSS and HTML are fundamental
things that you'll need to
know when using Web Kit.
So that's a simple chat application.
And if I put more messages,
it auto-scrolls to the bottom.
So that's how you append
live content to a web view.
Back to slides.
So I talked about style a little bit.
I was using class name.
There's other ways to access the style,
but I'm mainly going to
talk about class name.
You can also get access to
the style property and modify
properties individually.
Classes are the best way to go.
Here's an example that defines a couple
CSS rules on things you can append
and tell your div or element to use.
Here's an example in Objective-C.
I get an element by ID.
Again, the best way to do element access.
Use the setClassName property or method,
and now I'm telling this div or
element to use the class name hot.
So now it's going to inherit
those CSS rules that are
defined in my style sheet.
You can also, confusing,
but you can do this.
The class name is not
just a singular name.
You can supply a space-separated
list of names to use.
So now this header headline will inherit
from both hot and large style rules.
So now the color is going to be red,
bold, and 20 pixels tall.
You can see the benefit of doing this.
So let me show you a demo using
the same chat application.
Back to the demo.
So here's the chat window that I have up.
And remember that event listener
that I added to the code.
I'm listening for click events,
and I've registered this
class as an event listener.
And to do that in Objective-C,
you need to conform to the
DOM event listener protocol.
And the only thing defined in this
protocol is the handle event method.
I'm listening for click events,
and I've registered this
class as an event listener.
And to do that in Objective-C,
you need to conform to the
DOM event listener protocol.
And the only thing defined in this
protocol is the handle event method.
I'm listening for click events,
and I've registered this
class as an event listener.
And to do that in Objective-C,
you need to conform to the
DOM event listener protocol.
And the only thing defined in this
protocol is the handle event method.
And you can get access to the
DOM element that was clicked by
asking the event for its target.
It's as simple as that.
And now I can use the set class name to
modify the style of what was clicked.
And in my style sheet,
I have a special rule
Tim O' That I use alongside of
message that changes the background
color of anything that's clicked.
So a way to flag a message or
do other actions style-wise to
the message that was clicked.
So let's see that in the example.
So I can click on any of these
elements and the style changes
and updates and WebView re-renders
that information based on the new
style rules that I've passed in.
So back to the slides.
So class name is really the best
way to take advantage of style
sheet manipulation in Web Kit.
You don't want to be in the
business of modifying and
adding properties on the fly.
You can do that,
and there are certain cases
where you want to do that,
and I'll show you more about that later.
But if you have a set of rules that
you want to apply to an element,
going back and forth
between different looks,
you want to switch the class names.
And that's the quickest way because
Web Kit can cache that rule,
and it doesn't have to
reparse the CSS every time.
So now we're going to talk
about WebView delegate methods.
WebView is full of delegates.
Normally, you only have one delegate in
your Cocoa or AppKit class.
But WebView has so many delegate methods,
we broke it up into five logical groups.
And those are user interface, frame load,
resource load,
policy delegate for navigation changes,
and the editing delegate,
which we added recently.
[Transcript missing]
Using these delegate methods,
I really didn't show in the demo.
Can we switch back to the demo?
In my WebView,
I haven't turned off anything.
So notice the context menu
still shows a context menu.
And I can drag in an HTML file,
and WebView will then
change to show that file.
But in your application,
you probably don't
want to do any of that,
because you don't want people to be
modifying what's being displayed.
So can we switch back to the slides?
So one thing you want to
do is prevent page changes.
When a file is dragged or a link
is clicked in your web view,
you want to handle those differently
in an application versus a web browser.
So you want to override or
define this delegate method,
this policy delegate method.
And you want to get the
URL that we pass in.
You can then check the schema or
URL for the types you want to allow.
And on the previous slide,
it told you you want to
allow the about blank URL.
That's if you're using load
HTML string or load HTML data.
Those are memory loads.
They don't have any
URL associated with them.
So Web Kit's just going to
use the about blank URL.
So you want to allow that if
you're using any of those APIs.
In my example, I used a URL and told
it to load it from disk,
which is the preferred way of
loading content into a web view.
So you can check and allow the
files that you expect to be loaded.
And you should also pass off any
URLs that you don't want to handle
by sending that through NS Workspace.
Listener ignore.
We pass in a listener object
to these delegate methods,
and if you say listener ignore,
then the WebView will not
load any of that content.
Calling listener use will actually
tell WebView to display that content,
which I do in these other two examples.
So I talked about context menus also.
In my example, I had a reload menu,
and that would actually reload the
WebView back to its original state.
You probably don't want any
of your users doing that.
It's probably handy for you to do
when you're developing or testing,
but you don't want that
in your shipping product.
So you can use this UI delegate to
change or modify or totally suppress
the context menu that shows up.
And by default,
Web Kit will show like a reload, a back,
and a forward.
It also shows you copy and paste,
which you probably want to keep.
But you want to totally suppress
anything that you don't want to
show up for your shipping product.
So that's some of the
WebView delegate methods,
just a few of the key ones that
you want to implement if you
are actually using WebView in a
way that's not like a browser.
Now let's talk about
the Web Scripting API.
This has been a little
confusing for people,
so I want to clarify what
exactly you can do with this API.
The general sense of what it
allows you to do is bridge
objects from Objective-C to
JavaScript and back and forth.
So you can call a method
on your Objective-C class,
and you can also call a
function back into JavaScript.
There's some required methods
that you need to implement.
The documentation is a
little confusing on this,
but you need to implement these methods,
or your bridged objects
will not work in JavaScript.
So isSelector excluded from JavaScript?
IsKey excluded from JavaScript?
The selector means is this
JavaScript method excluded,
or is this key,
meaning a property that's going
to be exposed into JavaScript.
And you want to return no from
any of these methods that you
want to actually expose that
selector or key to JavaScript.
And you don't need to
worry about calling super.
So here's an example.
I have a simple class that
just has a my action that
I want to expose to JavaScript.
And in this case, I need to return no.
So I want to tell that script,
that object to expose
my action to JavaScript.
And if I have a property
name that's in my class,
I can expose that in the is key excluded.
That gets exposed as a
property in JavaScript.
So the default names are kind of ugly.
When going from Objective-C to
JavaScript syntax,
Objective-C has a lot of colons.
It's not your typical language
where everything is passed
in as an argument list.
Objective-C spaces them out with colons.
So if you have a selector
that has three arguments,
you really want to clean that up.
By default,
it's going to look very ugly like this,
where you have underscores,
and that's not a common practice
or look in the JavaScript language.
So you really want to change it
and make it a more terse name and
common name to be used in JavaScript.
And this looks a lot better
and is more familiar to those
that... use JavaScript daily.
So now that we have our methods and
properties exposed to JavaScript,
you want to bind that
when the page loads.
And you typically bind it as an
object that is on the window object.
And anything on the
window object is implied.
So if I give it a key name of sprite,
it's really window.sprite.
But you can also refer
to it as just sprite.
That's a thing you can do in JavaScript.
So in this example, I'm using the
Windows Script Object Available
delegate method to bind any of
my Objective-C objects to their
JavaScript counterpart names.
And in this case, I allocate a sprite,
set it using simple set value for key.
And the key is, like I said,
going to be the name on the
Windows Script object that you
can access through JavaScript.
I've talked about exposing
Objective-C to JavaScript.
What about the other way around,
where you want to get access
to anything that's already in
JavaScript from Objective-C?
You can do that using
the WebScript object,
and that's what encapsulates every
JavaScript object and function.
If you do an evaluate web script,
this will return you a web
script object of the result,
which could be a string,
it could be an object.
And every WebView has a
Windows script object,
and every web frame has
a document DOM object,
which is under the hoods
a web script object,
which maps to the JavaScript class.
So here's an example.
I get the Windows script
object from the web view,
and I call evaluateWebScript.
And this just treats the string
just like it was any other script
that I might have quick access to.
If it's a function that
takes no parameters,
this is fine to use.
But really, the preferred way to do any
JavaScript access is using the new,
which is available in Tiger and Panther,
callWebScript method with arguments.
And this is quick and very direct.
It doesn't have to parse the script.
It just calls the method directly.
So you want to get the
Windows script object.
You can ask for another object.
In this case, I'm getting the MyScript.
So I'm going to get my sprite
off of the Windows script object.
And then I can set up my arguments.
And the arguments are passed
in as an NSArray in the order
that JavaScript expects it.
Then you just call web script method,
and you pass in the name,
no curly braces or
parentheses or anything,
just the name of the function that
you're calling on that object,
and any arguments you want to pass in.
You can pass in nil if you
don't have any arguments.
And that's the fastest and
most direct way to access
JavaScript from Objective-C.
So that's the web scripting interface.
Now I'm going to hand it over-- actually,
I'm going to talk to you
what's new in Leopard.
We've added a lot of cool
new things in Leopard.
If you've attended any
of the previous sessions,
such as Safari for
Web Content Developers,
you've heard what we've
added to the engine.
The same sort of applies
to the Cocoa APIs.
One new thing we've added is the
ability to have transparent web views.
This is a popular request where
you want content to be able
to see through the content,
or dashboard is already using
this for the rounded corners,
being able to have drop shadows
that blend in with the background,
and poking holes through your window.
You can now do that with Web Kit using
the setDrawsBackground method,
and that will prevent Web Kit from
drawing any background if
the page doesn't specify one.
You can also now access node
layout metrics of the DOM objects.
We added this for the
Web Inspector primarily.
It's really good for debugging,
but it's also handy if you need to show
anything that's overlaid the WebView,
such as a child window.
That's how we do the red
outline in the Web Inspector.
It's a child window that
draws over top of the WebView,
and the correct location that we get
from the DOM node about is layout.
And that's very useful if you
need to do any matching of
native content with your WebView.
You can also now get access
to the match CSS rules,
and this is handy if any
of you have ever tried to
Get access to CSS rules through
the style sheets and digging
through each one that you might
have specified in a style sheet.
You really don't know which
ones apply to an element.
Now you can pass an element and find
out a list of rules that actually apply,
and you can then modify those rules and
manipulate them as you would expect.
Like I showed you earlier,
we now have Objective-C DOM-less
event listeners.
So you can register yourself
as a native Objective-C class
to listen for click events,
double click events, mouse move,
mouse drag.
That's all happening inside the
Objective-C or inside the Web Kit DOM.
So you don't have to drop down into
JavaScript like you might have had to do
before just to get those basic events.
you can now do that with
native code and objective C.
XPath Expressions.
You can now evaluate XPath in the
Objective-C DOM on a document.
So you can ask for, with an expression,
get a list of nodes that
match in that document.
And that's very useful if you
need access to multiple nodes.
I talked about get element by ID.
That's really useful if you're
only getting access to one node.
But if you have a list of
nodes in a structured document
that you need access to,
you should use an XPath.
and you can get to those very quick.
We've also beefed up
our DOM level 3 support.
We've added a lot of new
properties based on the W3C spec.
There's some that we
haven't gotten around to,
but most of those are now available
through Objective-C and JavaScript.
So I want to give you a demo
of transparent web views.
Using my same chat application,
I'll bring up
: I'm going to start the demo again.
And like I had before,
just a normal chat message.
I also added some JavaScript that brings
up a handy little preference for the user
to change the opacity of the WebView.
So now my WebView is poking
through to the background.
So, I have some objectives,
just like everything else.
I have some opaque areas,
which is the chat message,
but the background is poking through.
So, how did I do that?
I'm using a new property that we've
added that is proprietary to WebKit,
so it has the WebKit prefix.
And it's a background composite mode,
similar to all the composite
modes you're used to in Quartz.
You can specify them for the
background image to draw with.
And in this case, I'm using clear and
specifying just any ping,
and it's going to clear
everything in the backing store.
And to do that, you need to set up your
window to be non-opaque.
So I did that in Awake from Nib,
if some of you noticed that earlier.
That's fine.
I'm making a clear
hole in the background.
What about the color that
I'm changing on top of that?
I made a fixed position element,
and I'm not going to go into the
details of fixed position elements,
but it just sits there and
doesn't change when scrolled.
So it stays in that position
over top of everything,
and it's actually a z-index
order behind everything.
It just has an RGBA value,
and I'm starting it out as no opacity.
But my slider takes care of that.
And I have some JavaScript that gets
called every time the slider is called.
And I'm using the same APIs I talked
about in the web scripting interface to
actually call back into my Objective-C.
I could easily do this style
change of changing the color
directly in Objective-C,
but I'm actually calling it back into the
Objective-C class to change the color.
The call is actually in here.
The JavaScript is irrelevant,
so ignore that previous.
So, I'm actually calling into
my chat controller and
telling it to adjust opacity.
And you can see I'm using the web
scripting APIs to expose Adjust Opacity,
changing the Adjust Opacity name to
get rid of the trailing underscore
that comes from that colon.
And the adjust opacity method simply
gets the background element by ID,
makes a new CSS value
for the background color,
but it takes the opacity and makes a
new value based on the slider value.
And I simply set the property
for the background color on the
background element style property.
So that's how you get the effect of
poking and seeing through the web view.
So back to slides.
Now I'm going to hand
it over to Tim Omernick,
and he's going to talk to you about
what's new in our plug-in APIs.
Thank you, Tim.
Can you guys hear me OK?
So I'm Tim Omernick,
and I'd like to talk to you
for a few minutes about plug-in
APIs and what's new in Leopard.
I'm not going to talk too much
about how to create a plug-in.
We've gone over that in
previous WWDC sessions.
But I'd like to give a
little bit of an overview,
in case you don't really
know anything about plug-ins.
So what can a plug-in do?
The right question is,
what can't Web Kit do?
Web Kit's very good at displaying HTML,
parsing CSS, and running JavaScript.
It does those things very, very well.
But it can't really do much more.
And that's where plug-ins come in.
If you need to extend
your Web Kit applications'
rendering capabilities,
or even provide capabilities
that aren't graphical in nature,
you might consider making a plug-in.
So some examples of plug-ins.
We have QuickTime to
handle QuickTime content.
There's a Quartz Composer plug-in
to handle Quartz Composer.
There's various PDF plug-ins,
both Apple and third party.
You can also write a plug-in to
handle your own content type.
Plug-ins don't just work in Web Kit,
they also work in
Firefox and other browsers,
as well as in the dashboard environment.
So Web Kit understands
two kinds of plug-ins.
There are Web Kit plug-ins,
which are great,
because they're Cocoa-based.
They're designed with Web Kit in mind.
A Web Kit plug-in is just an NS view.
You can use all of the same technologies
that you're familiar with-- App Kit and
Core Graphics-- to do your drawing,
et cetera.
The one caveat, though,
is that Web Kit plug-ins
only work in Web Kit-based
applications and in Dashboard.
So if you need your plug-in to work in
Firefox or Opera or another browser,
this is not really an option.
We also support Netscape plug-ins.
These are the cross-browser plug-ins.
These work in all browsers.
These are a little bit harder to
create because they're based on Carbon.
Again,
what kind of plug-in should I create?
Well,
if I'm making a Web Kit application,
and I just need one specific
piece of functionality that
Web Kit does not provide by default,
I would use a Web Kit plug-in.
Or if you're making a dashboard widget,
that is just a fantastic
use for a Web Kit plug-in.
Again, if your plug-in needs
to run in any browser,
Netscape plug-ins are
really your only option.
OK, creating a Web Kit plug-in.
I'm not going to get into this too much.
I wanted to let you know that in Leopard,
we have an Xcode project template.
So now you can go to New Project and
select Web Kit plug-in.
Easy as that.
and I wanted to remind you about two
pieces of sample code that we have,
Web Kit Movie Plugin and
Netscape Movie Plugin.
So I'd like to give you
a demo of a plug-in.
This is an interesting Web Kit plug-in.
It's interesting to me because--
could we switch to the demo?
Thanks.
This is interesting to me because
most people think of plug-ins as
these rectangular regions that
draw something on a web page.
And this isn't that kind of plug-in.
I just want to make sure my volume is OK.
So here I have a web page with some
input fields and some text and stuff.
Looks pretty basic.
I sure like being inside
this fancy computer.
So if you're familiar
with web development,
you might know that that's not something
you can normally do on a web page.
You can't normally just speak text.
Another example,
I have a little mouse-over effect.
Wowee.
And this is kind of an interesting
application for this technology.
This is sort of like
an auditory tool tip.
When I click in this text field,
it's going to give me spoken instructions
about what to do with that field.
You can imagine this being useful for
people who aren't very computer savvy,
or perhaps people who are sight impaired.
Please type in the name of your
favorite carbonated beverage.
OK.
So how does that work?
Let's look at our HTML here.
Pretty simple.
We have an embed here,
where we put the plug-in in the page.
Make note of the fact that
we give it a unique ID,
so that we can reference it later.
And then we have our various examples.
You'll notice in my CSS here,
my speech plug-in has a
width and height of zero.
That's kind of weird for a plug-in.
That basically means that the
plug-in isn't going to draw.
It's zero-sized.
The plug-in is intended to just
sit in the page and provide a
service to the rest of the page.
And here in my JavaScript,
I have to find two functions.
One of them takes some text,
gets the plug-in element by its ID,
and then calls a function on it.
So the code is pretty simple.
Here we just create a plug-in view.
Start up the speech synthesizer.
This is all just built-in Cocoa stuff.
Release the speech synthesizer.
Here's my startSpeakingString function,
the Objective-C version of it.
It just passes the string off
to the speech synthesizer.
You'll see here,
these might look familiar from Tim's
presentation a few minutes ago.
This is how I expose the start
speaking string and stop speaking
string methods to JavaScript.
And that's it.
Can we switch back to slides?
So that was a Web Kit plug-in.
That just gives you an idea of an
interesting way that you can use
plug-ins in your application that
you might not have thought of before.
So.
Let's talk about Netscape plug-ins.
This is an old API that was
designed to support plug-ins
that can run in any browser.
It's a fine API.
It works great.
All the major plug-ins
are using this today.
It has some problems, though.
It's a little bit outdated.
It was designed a really, really,
really long time ago.
And the state of the Mac has changed
since this API was first developed.
So I've been talking to some
plug-in developers who are pretty
frustrated with the situation.
And here's what they tell me
they want to be able to do
with their Netscape plug-ins.
You might have heard about
our 64-bit announcement.
All of our frameworks in
Leopard are now 64-bit.
This means that in theory you
can create a 64-bit plug-in.
The problem with that though is of course
there is no 64-bit version of Quick Draw.
So if you want to
create a 64-bit plug-in,
you're going to need an alternative
API if you want to get anything
on screen or even loaded at all.
If you want to draw with
any sort of performance,
this is a little bit exaggerated.
But I wanted to get the point across
that if you're using Quick Draw to draw,
that's fine.
It's not going anywhere for now,
but we're not improving it.
We're not making Quick Draw any better.
So if you really want that
high-performance drawing,
Quick Draw is not really the answer.
Developers want interesting
effects like shadows,
transparency,
cool sort of rotation scaling effects.
And that's kind of a biggie, 3D.
These are all very,
very hard to do with Quick Draw.
So we happen to have a couple of
technologies available for you.
We are bringing Core Graphics
and OpenGL support down into the
Netscape Plugin API so that you
can actually use Core Graphics and
OpenGL to draw your plug-in content.
So how do you actually use this new API?
Well, we've proposed an extension to
the existing Netscape plugin
API called Plugin Drawing Models.
And the way it works is when
your plugin is initialized,
it tells the browser which kind of
graphics context it would like to use,
whether it's Core Graphics, OpenGL,
or Quick Draw.
To actually use it in your plug-in,
you have to pick the drawing
model in your NPP new function.
This is sort of your
plug-in init function.
The basic process is that you
ask the browser if it supports
Core Graphics or whatever drawing
model you're interested in,
in this case Core Graphics.
If the browser does not support the
drawing models that you're interested in,
you can return an error so
that your plug-in doesn't load.
If the browser does support the plug-in
drawing model that you're interested in,
you can use set value to set it.
Simple as that.
Okay, so what does that actually do?
Well, if you've written a
Netscape plug-in before,
you might be familiar with
this NP port structure.
This is used to indicate to the
plug-in which graphics context,
which Quick Draw port your
plug-in should draw into,
as well as where in the
port it should draw.
In a Quick Draw-less environment,
that's obviously not a
very appropriate structure,
so we've introduced a new type,
NP-CG context.
So the way you actually use that is
when you're handling your update event,
you would just assume that the
NP Windows port structure is actually
an NP CG context instead of an NP port.
So drawing with OpenGL is very similar.
You just ask if the browser supports it.
You set it.
In this case, there's another type,
npglcontext, that gives you access to a
cglcontext and the window.
And in your handle update event,
the browser actually sets up the port
before it calls into your plug-in.
So pretty much you can
just start making GL calls,
and everything will just show up.
So OpenGL windowed versus windowless.
OpenGL is really interesting because
there are sort of two uses for it.
You can use OpenGL to
generate these really,
really awesome fancy effects, you know,
with shaders and all sorts of
interesting options and stuff.
Or you can use OpenGL to get really,
really fast graphics,
get hardware-accelerated
litting and such.
So we actually let you pick
which mode of operation you want.
By default, plug-ins are windowed,
meaning that they're
hardware accelerated,
and they can't layer inside the page.
They just basically
float above the browser.
But this is by far the
more high performance path,
so this is on by default.
: OpenGL plug-ins can
optionally be windowless,
meaning that they're rendered off-screen.
This eliminates your hardware
acceleration capabilities,
but the benefit is that you
get transparency and layering
and interesting effects.
The way you actually set that,
this is not a new API,
it's just something that we
never really implemented before.
But you use NPP set value,
or NPN set value with the
plugin window bool variable.
Set it to false if you
want windowless mode.
That's not actually a typo.
I'm casting false to avoid pointer.
I know, it's really weird.
That's just how the
Netscape plugin API works.
So if you want to learn more
about these drawing models,
we've updated our NP API header.
You can find that in
the Web Kit framework.
We also have two pieces of
sample code that we're going
to make available to you.
They're not online yet,
but they will be shortly.
Netscape Core Graphics Plugin
and Netscape OpenGL Plugin.
I'm actually going to give you
a demo of the OpenGL plugin.
And here it is.
Can you switch to the demo?
[Transcript missing]
So you can see my
cheesy 3D rotating cube.
It's all lit with GL lights and all that.
This is actually a windowless plug-in,
meaning that it's being
software rendered.
And you can see that the
background is transparent,
so it's layering over the text correctly.
I've set this HTML up such that
the text is below the plug-in,
and the plug-in is
below this Safari icon.
And when I scroll,
the cube is just going to stay
still just to show you how it can
layer with other page elements.
This is something that you
just couldn't do before.
Okay.
The code, actually,
I guess I can show you.
It's pretty similar to what
you saw up on the slides.
Here in my NPP new, whoops.
I ask if the browser supports OpenGL,
and then I pick the OpenGL drawing model.
This plug-in can actually run in
both windowed and windowless mode.
So you can see us setting
the window variable there.
And then in my handle update event,
You can see that I just go
straight into making OpenGL calls.
I set up my GL, set up the lights,
clear the background, all of that.
That's a really inefficient
way to draw a cube,
I
One more thing I wanted to show you.
If I go in my HTML here,
And change this, this is my reference to
my plug-in and my HTML.
I can just get rid of
this wmod=transparent.
That's how my plug-in switches
between windowed and windowless mode.
And then when I go and
actually open this in Safari,
You can see that it's
switched to windowed mode,
and it floats above everything else.
But this is actually
hardware accelerated,
so you're getting a
much higher frame rate.
Can I switch back to slides?
Okay, so that was plug-in drawing models,
and I hope that you're inspired to take
advantage of those APIs now in Leopard.
There's one more
API I wanted to talk about.
This is a pretty exciting one.
It's pretty cool.
Plug-ins now in Leopard are
able to access and manipulate
their own DOM elements.
That sounds like techno mumbo jumbo.
What does that actually mean?
Well, a DOM or a plug-in can do really,
really interesting things.
It's no longer just this fixed rectangle
on a page that's told to render in
some location and look some way.
It can actually fully integrate
with the rest of its document.
It can do really interesting things,
like move itself or resize itself.
It can access its own CSS properties,
set its own CSS properties,
like opacity and borders
and outlines and such.
You can do things like making
the text in the plug-in.
If your plugin draws text,
you can make it match the text
in the surrounding document.
The way you use this is we have a
web-- when your plug-in is created,
it's passed an arguments dictionary.
This is for a Web Kit plug-in.
One of the arguments that you get is
a web plug-in containing element key.
This is actually a DOM element
that you can manipulate using
the same APIs that Tim Hatcher
talked about a few minutes ago.
We also have support for this
API on the Netscape side.
This uses the NP Object Runtime API.
I'm not going to get into that now,
but there's plenty of documentation
available for that online.
You can also see our NP Runtime header.
The way you use it on the Netscape
side is to just get the value for the
plug-in element NP Object variable.
So I wanted to show you a demo of that.
So this is a Web Kit plug-in.
I'll show you my code first.
It's pretty basic.
You can see here in my
plug-in view with arguments,
I save the arguments that
are passed to my plug-in.
That'll be important later.
I'm not going to get too much into how
this thing draws or actually magnifies,
does its thing.
It's not too important.
It's not too relevant.
What I wanted to show you, though,
is this -- you know what?
This is going to make a lot more
sense if I just show you first.
So here's my plug-in.
You can see that I can click it
and drag it around on the page.
So that's pretty cool.
How does that actually work?
How does the plug-in move
itself around on the page?
Well, you can see in my view's
mouse-dragged method,
I get that containing element,
and I get its CSS style object.
This is a really powerful
object to have access to,
because you can set things
like top and left to move the
plug-in around on the page.
So you can see here that I get
the property left from the style.
Add the horizontal mouse movement,
and then just set the
value back on the property.
And I do that again for the top.
And that's really it.
Next slide, please.
Okay, so that's all I wanted to
talk to you about today.
If you want more information
about this session or plug-ins
or Web Kit in general,
you can talk to Mark Malone.
He's our
Internet Technologies Evangelist.
If you want documentation,
you can look on the WWDC site or
just in general developer.apple.com.
I also wanted to point you
at the Netscape or Gecko
plug-in API documentation.
I'll just leave it up there so you can
write down the URL if you're interested.
I'm not going to read it to you.
I see this guy writing it down,
so I'm just going to
wait for him to finish.
So I also wanted to invite
you to come down to our lab.
It's immediately after this session.
Please come down if you have
any questions about plug-ins
or about WebKit in general.
A lot of the Safari and WebKit team
are going to be down there.
So just follow us right down.